=================
how to deploy my laravel project from my windows 10 environment to VPS hosting with Ubuntu 22.04 LTS?
To deploy your Laravel project from a Windows 10 environment to a VPS running Ubuntu 22.04 LTS, you will need to set up your VPS with a 
LEMP (Linux, Nginx, MySQL, PHP) stack, transfer your project files using Git or SFTP, configure the server environment, and run the necessary Laravel commands. 
Prerequisites
A Windows 10 machine with your working Laravel project (ideally in a Git repository) and an SSH client (like Git Bash, PuTTY, or the built-in Windows Subsystem for Linux).
A VPS running Ubuntu 22.04 LTS with root or sudo user access via SSH.
A domain name configured to point to your VPS IP address (optional but recommended for SSL setup). 
Step 1: Prepare the Ubuntu VPS ... ... etc...

How set Git repositoryand to place my windows 10 Laravel project to my Git repository (e.g., GitHub, GitLab)?
To set up a Git repository for your Windows 10 Laravel project and place it on a remote host like GitHub or GitLab, you will use the command line (Git Bash is recommended) to initialize Git locally, link it to your remote repository, and push the files. 
Prerequisites
Git Installed: Ensure you have Git for Windows installed. The installation includes Git Bash, a command-line interface that is helpful for Git operations on Windows.
A Git Account: Have an account on a service like GitHub or GitLab.
Step-by-Step Guide
1. Create a Remote Repository ... ... etc...
-
git init
git branch -M main
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit of Laravel project LU"
git remote add origin https://github.com/Gitarijada/lustratio.git
git remote -v
git push -u origin main


VPS hosting hosting company

Laravel project VPS, you will need a LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) or LEMP (Linux, Nginx, MySQL, PHP) stack. unmanaged VPS, 
you will be responsible for installing and configuring all the necessary software yourself. 
Here are the recommended options and setup choices:
1. Operating System
Choose: Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Long Term Support) or a later LTS version (e.g., 24.04, if available).
Reasoning: Ubuntu is a popular choice for Laravel deployment, with extensive community support and tutorials available for setting up a production-ready environment. 
2. Web Server
Choose: Nginx is generally recommended for Laravel in a production environment due to its superior performance and efficiency in handling concurrent connections.
Alternative: Apache is also a valid choice and might feel more familiar if you're coming from an XAMPP background, as XAMPP uses Apache by default. 
It's perfectly capable of running Laravel. 
3. Database
Choose: MySQL 8.0+ or MariaDB.
Reasoning: Both are fully supported by Laravel's Eloquent ORM and are standard in a production environment. 
You are already using MySQL with XAMPP, so this will be a seamless transition. 
4. Required Software & Dependencies
You will need to install the following software packages on your Ubuntu server via the command line (SSH access): 
PHP: Choose a recent, stable version like PHP 8.2 or later as required by modern Laravel versions.
PHP Extensions: Install essential extensions: php-fpm (for Nginx), php-mysql, php-mbstring, php-xml, php-bcmath, php-curl, php-zip, and php-gd.
Composer: This is the PHP dependency manager that Laravel uses. It is essential for managing your project's libraries.
Git: Necessary for version control and deploying your project code from a repository (e.g., GitHub, GitLab) to your VPS. 
Summary of the Recommended Stack
The most performant and modern stack for Laravel is generally considered to be LEMP (Linux, Nginx, MySQL, PHP-FPM). 
Key Steps After VPS Provisioning
Once PRQ provides you with your VPS credentials (IP address, username, password/SSH key), you will need to:
Connect via SSH: Use a terminal (Linux/macOS) or a client like PuTTY (Windows) to log in to your server.
Initial Server Setup: Update packages and create a new user with sudo privileges (avoid using root for daily tasks).
Install Software: Manually install and configure Nginx/Apache, MySQL/MariaDB, PHP (with FPM and extensions), and Composer.
Deploy your Project: Use Git to clone your project repository onto the server.
Configure Environment: Set up your .env file with the correct database credentials and application key.
Set Permissions: Configure file permissions for the storage and bootstrap/cache directories to be writable by your web server. 
This approach gives you full control and is the standard method for deploying Laravel on an unmanaged VPS.
--------------------
For a VPS Laravel project, Ubuntu 22.04 LTS is the generally recommended choice for production environments 
due to its proven stability, extensive community knowledge base, and comprehensive vendor support. 
Ubuntu 24.04 LTS offers performance improvements and newer software versions (e.g., PHP 8.3) 
but may involve more initial setup and troubleshooting of potential compatibility issues with third-party tools or specific hardware drivers. 
-------------------
To install a LEMP stack (Linux, Nginx, MySQL, PHP) on Ubuntu 22.04, first update your system, then install Nginx, MySQL, and PHP (specifically php8.1-fpm and php-mysql), 
and finally configure Nginx to process PHP files by creating a server block for your site and testing with a phpinfo() file, ensuring you secure MySQL and set up UFW firewall rules. 
